# CarbonFootPrintCalculator
Carbon footprint, amount of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions associated with all the activities of a person or other entity (e.g., building, corporation, country, etc.).

Carbon footprints are different from a country’s reported per capita emissions (for example, those reported under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change). Rather than the greenhouse gas emissions associated with production, carbon footprints focus on the greenhouse gas emissions associated with consumption. They include the emissions associated with goods that are imported into a country but are produced elsewhere and generally take into account emissions associated with international transport and shipping, which is not accounted for in standard national inventories. As a result, a country’s carbon footprint can increase even as carbon emissions within its borders decrease.

Carbon footprints can be reduced through improving energy efficiency and changing lifestyles and purchasing habits. Switching one’s energy and transportation use can have an impact on primary carbon footprints. For example, using public transportation, such as buses and trains, reduces an individual’s carbon footprint when compared with driving. Individuals and corporations can reduce their respective carbon footprints by installing energy-efficient lighting, adding insulation in buildings, or using renewable energy sources to generate the electricity they require. For example, electricity generation from wind power produces no direct carbon emissions. Additional lifestyle choices that can lower an individual’s secondary carbon footprint include reducing one’s consumption of meat and switching one’s purchasing habits to products that require fewer carbon emissions to produce and transport.
